Release v0.7.5
==============

- Added support for customizing the opaque ids (wdref, wds, and wdv)
  generated by the RDF encoder.  This can be done via parameters
  `gen_wdref`, `gen_wds`, and `gen_wdv` of `KIF_Object.to_rdf()`.

- Added store-level `Store.distict` flag (analogous to `Store.limit`,
  `Store.page_size`, etc.).

- Fixed a bug in the `mixer` store that was causing the timeout property of
  child stores not to be properly initialized.

Release v0.7.4
==============

- Added the `sparql-jena` store, a local RDF store that uses Jena to
  evaluate SPARQL queries.  The `sparql-jena` backend is now used by default
  by the `rdf` store if Jena is available.

- Added a base filter to `Store` API.  Now every store has a base filter
  which is &-ed with the filter supplied as an argument to the
  `Store.filter()` call.

- Fixed a bug in `mixer` that was causing it to not honor
  `Store.extra_references`.

- Fixed a bug in the SPARQL compiler that was causing RDFLib to generate the
  wrong results in `Store.filter_annotated`.

Release v0.7.3
==============

- Fixed wds when compiling Wikidata filters.  When not collecting
  annotations, we now use a blank node for wds instead of a variable.  This
  way statements with the same (s,p,v) will *not* be counted as distinct.

Release v0.7.2
==============

- Added a new encoder, `Dot`.  This is useful for displaying graphs.

Release v0.7.1
==============

- Updated quickstart and API reference.  Removed legacy stuff.

Release v0.7.0
==============

- All SPARQL-based stores suffered a major refactoring.  Now they all derive
  from a base SPARQL store which supports multiple back-ends (currently,
  Httpx and RDFLib).  Also, the SPARQL-based stores now use the new SPARQL
  compilation pipeline, which is completely parameterized by SPARQL
  mappings.  The old SPARQL compilation code was removed.

- The code of other stores, including the common code in `abc`, was
  simplified.

- The Wikidata mappings now generate a single query to resolve
  `Store.filter_annotated()`.

- Legacy descriptor classes were removed, as these were superseded by
  pseudo-properties.

Release v0.6.3
==============

- Fixed bug (regression) that was causing
  `Store.extra_references` to not be honored.

Release v0.6.2
==============

- Fixed the query that was being generated by `get_annotations()` in the
  `SPARQL_Store`.  Now the query no longer assumes that properties occurring
  in qualifier and reference snaks adopt the Wikidata RDF schema.

Release v0.4
============

- Added a new `range` field (datatype) to `Property`.  This information is
  now being retrieved automatically by most stores.

- Added new, simpler APIs to construct `SomeValueSnak`'s and
  `NoValueSnaks`'s.  That is, `Property.some_value()` and
  `Propeprty.no_value()`

- Renamed the `FilterPattern` object to `Filter` to distinguish it from
  patterns.

- Added support for more expressive fingerprints.  We now distinguish
  between value and snak fingerprints and allow these to be composed using
  and's (`&`) and or's (`|`).

- Added full support for entity masks to `Filter`.

- Updated the `SPARQL_Store` to use the compiler infrastructure and template
  instantiation mechanism to generate the query of `filter()` and parse the
  results.

- Added a new entity description downloader module/tool
  (`vocabulary.wd.downloader`).  Also, updated the format of the TSV files.
